all right let me set the context for the
video in this video we have seong song
is the co-founder and CTO at Jupiter
Jupiter is one of the biggest teex
aggregators in the world probably the
biggest one right now um they're
primarily on Solana they let people swap
assets from one asset to another for
example if you want to convert your
Solana to usdc or vice versa and you
want to do all of this on chain you use
Jupiter for it in some form or fashion
even if you're swapping via a wallet
like Phantom or backpack under the hood
your requests get routed via Jupiter um
they have built this very solid pmf of
price Discovery where they're sitting on
top of a bunch of dexes metora is a DEX
Orca is a DEX they find the best prices
for a specific asset on that Dex and let
you swap of course they take a fee in
the middle how big are they exactly U
well in the last 24 hours I'm seeing
this right in front of my screen they
did around 1.8 billion in volumes that
means $1.8 billion were swapped on their
platform or via apis on Jupiter U and if
you take like a humble cut for them I
think the number is around
0.05% that you know amounts to a lot of
money if I'm doing the math right I know
somewhere between half a mil to a mil uh
in the last 24 hours uh so it's a great
product to build as long as the chain
gets a lot of volumes and if you're the
biggest Dex aggregator or even a DEX on
that chain um you know it's a good time
to be alive in these markets in the spot
we'll go through their Journey how did
they start Jupiter what did the initial
version of Jupiter look like highly
technical uh what what are the
challenges that they faced what does
Jupiter V6 look like and how is it
different from the very first versions
of Jupiter we're also opening two
bounties the first one is to build a
payment Gateway on top of Solana um and
the way you're going to integrate
Jupiter here is payment Gateway needs to
allow any token as an input that means
if you want to sell a t-shirt people
should be able to pay you in let's say
Trump coin and you need to immediately
convert the Trump coin to usdc um if
you're ever creating a payment Gateway u
a t-shirt seller would want to get paid
in usdc but it's not necessary that the
other party has USC uh whoever is buying
the T-shirt so it builds like a clean
way for someone to pay via a trump token
or Solana and the merchant to get paid
bya usdc that's the first one there are
a bunch of technical challenges here
specifically deposits and withdrawals
are generally very hard if someone is
paying you figuring out which Merchant
they're trying to pay in the end hitting
the web hook of the merchant and letting
the merchant know that the successful
transaction has been done that's a
little challenging and of course the
Second Challenge here is making sure as
soon as the money hits you um you're
able to convert almost immediately to
usdc if you don't do that and there's a
very big price impact if the price of
the Trump token drops by a lot then you
won't be able to pay your end merchants
in usdc the second problem statement is
a slightly more sophisticated trading
tool on top of Jupiter I think Jupiter
already has a bunch of these things but
for now the platform needs to support uh
limit orders that means you can place
not just an immediate order to buy
Solana but you can place a limit order
that says I want to buy Solana as soon
as it drops to let's say $150 and
slightly more sophisticated tools like
taking profit and stop losses so a user
should be able to come to your platform
lock in some usdc let's say 150 usdc and
they should be able to put certain
conditions that I want to buy Solana as
soon as it hits 150 usdc and I want to
sell it as soon as it reaches 200 and I
also want to stop my loss in case it
drops below $125 so this would involve a
bunch of smart contracts where you need
to lock the user tokens um talking to
oracles to get price Discovery and you
know understand what the price of salana
is at a certain point and making sure
the transactions actually happen um
whenever the price targets are hit
you'll find a link in the description to
both of these mounties I would urge you
to try them out and make a submission
the total price pool of these mounties
is around $800 with that context let's
get into the Pod how do you make these
product decisions on what should get
built right and also like what does the
typical SPL the software development
cycle look like so back then the
building process is very different like
we were trying to be more conservative
because of the you were Run Fly iio and
you of course sign out of compute so you
moved to AWS where the bills were really
high now you're running you know at 100K
month bill that's all that you're
burning on compute for the execution lb
I mean and if you think about this 100K
a month we are serving almost 20,000
requests per second 20 to
30,000 that's very cool the code is not
open source how does that work
everything that we do on the how you
guys tackle that problem and what were
some of the obstacles you face along the
way as and like you mentioned since you
guys were not with me to RBS yeah I mean
it's actually very good questions right
if you think about it the very first
jupter AG dator is a very simple
contract um I think we are on version
six right now of the contract then we
realize like okay like it works pretty
well
[Music]
but cool let me set the context a little
bit so we're doing this podcast series
with a bunch of technical folks so like
usually CTO of companies
trying to understand you know the
engineering principles how did they
build what they build what were the
technical challenges in building you
know a product like this I think Jupiter
is probably a great example of you know
highly technical product so we'll take
that in that direction hello hello
welcome to another episode of only T
podcast today we have with us song from
Jupiter Jupiter is one of the most
widely used applications on
Solana I think to an extent why it's
probably
a fast statement to St that Jupiter is
the homepage of salana like Google is
the homepage of the
internet so
welcome welcome to inviting
me great I think to kick things off U it
would be great if you could give us a
high level overview of what all Jupiter
offers at the moment I think everyone
knows the swap aggregator but are there
other products that jupter is actively
working on yes so uh so so at the
beginning I think has been slightly more
than four years right now you launch as
a swoft aggregator they're aggregating
all the amm and you know different a
books on on salana then after that we
have based on the sof product we launch
on you know limit order DCA VA so all
these are the products that built around
the swap product we also have a future
product the Perpetual product as well
which is a very different than uh you
know the aggregator it's uh it's also
very different than a typical order book
based future so the way it works is that
you have the lp there you know the lp
the glp S like giving the liquidity for
the traders to trade on then I cow fees
to the the the the what we call the JP
pool um yeah then now we also have the
mobile app as well you know yeah uh and
obviously a pro um another product for
you know the people who are in the
trenches to to trade fast and you know
at the at the speed that they want
yeah just just jumping right into it
right like there is like literally quite
almost a dozen different products that
are that are in you know in the buffet
options that Jupiter has to an extent
where you know Jupiter is Def super
right so I'm curious to I'm really
curious to understand how you guys
approach building products like how do
you make these product decisions on what
should get built
right and also like what does the
typical SP the software development
cycle look
like um the team is much bigger right
now I think a year ago when the token R
life we have about 15 people so back
then the building process is very
different right you know like we just
based on like we were trying to be more
conservative because of the you know
like you know be bare Market all these
different like you know things like back
then most of the times being spend all
like okay like how do we conserve uh you
know like resources instead of like
spending like you know doubling out on
like products so most of the time it's
just like you know like look at products
that we think will be helpful in the
salana ecosystem and things that we
think can do better um but obviously
bare markets can be helpful as well
because a lot less noise in the market
people can can be more focused on
Building Products so I would say like
over the year like especially 20 2023
you know like after FTX went down late
22 the whole year of 2023 is just
basically a very small team you know
heads down Building Product um During
the period That's when you know most of
the products came out from U you know
the future product theature GP po um um
like the a DCA you know uh va8 and uh
limit order so all those product came
out around the time um and if you if you
look at how we do it right it's like DCA
va8 and uh you know limit all
it's a technically it's not very
complicated product you know just like
um it's whatever we build on top of the
the swap aggregator because we can help
you define the you know the the best the
best the best price to execute on um
then you using that routing engine we
basically build limit order you know DCA
ba so those efforts are very like you
know I wouldn't say like very high like
high efforts but mostly a low efforts
but we can see pretty high reward from
that
but obviously like uh at the time like
we also feel like there's no good future
perfecture product on on Solana that's
why we decided to spend more time
building that product I would say most
of the
2023 um you know most products are built
with like just one or two people and
like you know based on the resources
that we have like just like you know
like Just Launch fast and move fast yeah
uh obviously now sorry yeah yeah yeah
please continue please continue yeah so
now now you know like then 2024 happened
right you know it's like mean token then
now ai tokens like all these different
things um I was just uh sharing like
earlier this afternoon in the sector we
we went from uh seeing like you know
like maybe less than less than new 10
new tokens a day to like now what 5 to
10,000 new tokens a day right it's a
very different scale and very different
uh thing right now along the way our
team has to scale with the with the
demand that we are getting um we also
see our user base from like what like 50
I mean I was just looking at the number
of jupy that's coming out we we have to
reward 10x more users right now compared
like basically like the first juper was
users that have been using Jupiter for
what 3 years before the token was live
and this juper is basically like you
know the one whole last year of uh
activities and it's 10x more users right
like 10x more user than the three years
before combined so you can look at the
scale not just Solana I mean not just
Jupiter right Solana in general right um
um like obviously the team need to grow
together with it as well we have to be
more careful on everything last time if
things go down you know people we can
really tolerate but now it's like we
have a lot more users like we have to be
engineering have to be more responsible
on like you know what to ship and be
careful of what to ship as well because
like even small change that we make
might you know you know might AFF even
though it might be like 10 users or 20
like 100 users but they might complain
that because the way you think about
this like okay like 100 users are not
using it like [__] it we can just close
it like turn it off but there's always
one person who is using it like one good
example is like we ear off a w so
swapping uh like two weeks ago but
immediately we have to turn it on
because uh you know like even though
it's a user it's a feature that like 90
I would say like 99% of user are not
using it but that 1% of user would be
like okay like do like why you turn it
on like like this is the only thing I
use here right um which is very uncommon
for typical user course not many people
use W so to trade and keep it in W so
without unwrapping it right um so that's
one example then uh obviously product
now can get more complex so something
like a proo can launch because if you
look at a pro it's not just a simple
product you have like you know using
swap to swap tokens obviously um but you
need the data on the graph you know you
need like uh all the holders data you
you need to show like you know potential
people rugging then we have to rebuild
the whole real time chart on the UI as
well like it's a it's a more much more
complex product uh but luckily we we you
know we have the help from two teams
that report soana FM and also coin HW
they help us to build the product yes
yeah well it's it's like I I think you
can significantly see that in terms of
the maturity of the prodct and also like
the maturity of the Deep kind of like
goes hand in hand right so for there are
like a lot of developers who are you
know would be tuning into this podcast
so it would be interesting from their
perspective to hear about what do you
look for when you onboard new members
into your team like what are the
qualities that are extremely important
to you as you know with the culture of
the Jupiter and like you know or rather
what it takes to be successful at
Jupiter um
I'll say like in the early days it's
like you know like like we have a bunch
of like product Engineers like people
who just can build product fast but now
at this stage we're actually looking at
both frag now you know people can build
product fast at the same time people can
scale product fast as well and they
really can like you know come in and fix
problems like uh you know like as a as a
you know like like really expert at the
problem we
solving I would love to live a little
bit deeper into this what is the exact
textt when you say product engineer uh
that's joining the team so product
Engineers means uh you know we don't
have product managers most products
driven by the engineer so the way we do
it is that like you know if you're
product Engineers means like you really
understand you you're obviously you're
not just the user of the product
yourself you have to know okay this is
something that you know like Mak sense
and you know I like C like I really want
to see this product um to be in the
market then you will build it up for
yourself and also for the people that
you think will be useful that's how
limit order DCA or came out from it's
basically like okay ourg has been doing
this like you know limit order with
their own script like using jupyter API
he was like okay let let's just put it
on the website you know so that other
people can use the same script doing the
same thing as well right so that's one I
would say that's one type of like what I
mean by product Engineers it might not
be the best as like you know just doing
Contracting but they understand
everything from the you know end user
all the way to like contract dual bam
right so they can do everything um same
thing for our routing engine our routing
engine was like you know multiple
version as well the first version was
like everything on the front L we craw
the whole J I mean we call our PC get
all the data across back then maybe 100
pools or 200 pools everything can happen
like quite easily on the front end um
then we pull the data we find you the
best route but obviously from the
JavaScript front end then we have to
move it to the R back end even for the
rust backend right not I would say like
for the original team none of us are
native Russ Engineers right um but now
like you know we at this stage that like
when I say really deep expert what I
mean is like you know you might not even
know Sana Contra you might not even know
like you know JavaScript front end you
might not even know like you know what
user like use the product for but you
can go into the like the back end to
really optimize
the whole back end to be much faster
because you spend like years of you have
years of experience on like tuning like
a really like you know High skill like
high performance uh routing AG
yeah got
it so I'm I'm curious to to go like you
mentioned right like for example you
were doing in the initial days you would
just meet Cary call directly from the
frontend to get the Agate the routes and
present it to the user and going from
that to an API like like system where
you have your own R back in that
probably also meets that you have to run
a fairly large infrastructure where as
the number of tokens keep growing the
number of liquidity pools keep going
it's like a the data pipeline that you
need to have to index all of these
events a as you know as and then these
events
happen could I mean it's like a
tremendous amount of and that's a
tremendous ining task right would love
to hear more about like how you guys
tackled that problem and what were some
of the obstacles you face along the way
as like you mentioned since you guys
were not with NATO R books yeah I mean
it's actually very good questions right
if you think about it like like our our
our our face of like growing the product
right you know like U the very first
duper aggregator is a very simple
country um
I think we are on version six right now
of the contracts uh but the very first
one just like contract is one thing
Finance one or the front end or we call
the routing engine is that L the very
first version is like okay you come to
the Jupiter website we actually call our
PC of all the pools that you have um U
you know for example if you try to route
from you know like you sold to usdc
right then we basically look at all the
pools that support So in usdc download
the download the data that we want and
calculate it on the go for you all on
the all on the UI on JavaScript and like
nothing even on the back end they
realize it's like okay like it works
pretty well but you know a lot of time
the data is duplicated all these things
like you know like front end you have to
do with like some some you know sometime
the you call a PC too frequent then the
user get banned like IP get restricted
rate limited all these different things
right that we move the JavaScript uh fin
C to backend to start serving in from uh
from the backend um like you know like
someone called a like some basically is
calling API instead of like everything
is being on the front end so that Sol
the like problem a little bit you know
it's always like this the latency slowly
go up okay now we need to fix some
problem may go down again then you know
like more pools more rout more whatever
then theyy start going up again so then
from the JavaScript back end uh serving
with API then realize that okay like
it's uh it's hitting a bottom neck right
now so suddenly all JavaScript Engineers
become a rust Engineers so we all have
to learn how to build a rust service
from that um you know um like you has to
like start doing like a like at the at
the at the very first version of the
rust engine is actually quite dumb as we
just we have a we we just keep pulling
the you know the the state because there
still not many pools and we just you
know it's just a tight Loop but you you
know how many pools that we have to call
uh I think it was like 200 something
pool so for us to refresh a pool take
like you know almost less than a second
uh is basically how fast the sonana slot
is being so we don't have to worry about
that problem at all so you know we don't
have to worry about Ste problem data is
being steal whatever so we can just keep
doing a t and keep refreshing the data
um just keep doing it then every C come
in so that we can save the RPC call to
all this RPC because we have a local
catch on the on the on the on the server
um but good thing is that we are using
service like fly. IO we could uh have
the same instances around the world so
we have I think at one point we have
like 14 locations or serving out our our
our request right um it was scaling
quite well until like one day um we
realized that like okay there are two
many pools right now a tight Loop takes
a dou like you know more than a second
so we might miss lock and data might get
steal right so that's not great so we
have to turn this whole thing into a
real time update directly from the
validator so when data change we
immediately update the m m po right so
there's another engineering change as
well um it told us a while about we got
that then now we have this real time
engine that you know data is coming in
like we can swim up real time update
into the pool into the pool in the
memory then code be directly Cote from
that okay then you know you thought the
problem is solved like you don't have to
start woring about problem then okay 5.
iio we are scaring so fast that they ran
out of machines for us they were like
okay like in certain regions like for
example uh Singapore even some Europe
regions that they have just like oh okay
like because we're serving so many
requests right now we need uh you know
20 Eng they're like okay we only have uh
at the biggest instance we only have
like five there's no more instances that
we can give you yeah okay [__] like now
we need to start thinking about like how
to do this right then we have to start
moving a lot of our infra into AWS U
even on AWS right at one point was
scaling so fast that AWS don't have the
machine for us as well they were like
okay like this region we run off the
biggest instance then we have to start
realizing like we have to start thinking
like okay um maybe the problem is uh you
know we are spending too much money on
like getting expensive uh CPU you know U
machines that we could just get uh
someone could really look into the code
and optimize for the CPU um then we have
this guy like you know really came in I
think it's like two weeks of like cut
all M shift from like a you know like a
I think it's like
192 uh X machines on awx into like
something that like we can run with like
32 CPU machines that was amazing like
you know this guy like basically save
our bill by 75% a month but just come in
and just do do we were paying like
almost like half a million in AWS bill
every month then this guy came in like
cut a bill to like 100,000 I said okay
how much you know how much car you want
like
give I know you just to make sure that
like all this happening but yeah bring
guy who came in like your talk keep like
he doesn't even know Sana how Sana works
and I just came in I look at the Cod
okay like I think this is not right you
know this GM could be optimized um yeah
but for him it's like I think it took
him one like two two two weeks to one
month basically fix everything um you
know our bill went from like half a
million to like 100,000 a month yeah and
like now we can use a smaller machine as
well then like you know ads as small
machine for the for for the smaller
instances compared to like large
instances um yeah so with that um yeah
basically multiple iterations but the
team still remain pretty small um five
like we say like five to six like four
to five people right now um and this guy
is not even working on it anymore it's
just like basically went in I look at
the like unoptimized code fix it now he
move on onto other projects he working
on other things right now yeah and it's
just like like it doesn't even know it's
I don't care I just want to like fix
interesting problem like yeah it's
amazing um to see how like you know like
people talk about DX engineer this is
the the the guy that been talking about
right yeah yeah are there any like hard
problems that you're dealing with now
that could be like you know an open
invitation that we could put out to the
listeners of this
podcast um I would say like you know he
was engine right now like can be I think
you know there are poppy places that can
be optimized and you we just need people
to go in to really see you know what are
the place that like you know even
algorithm wise even like you know like
CU sometime it's just not no no longer
just algorithm problem right like for
others um you know best price is not
just the best price anymore because um
best price can come with different many
different factors you know like I can
find it the best price but if you're
late at executing it then the my best
price might disappear so for someone who
are on on the website right you know you
can see the best price but usually it
can be on a shallow pool if someone swap
the best price away from you then your
next s will be like you know you will
hit the cage will be a very awful
experience so now it's actually more
like a multifactors u problem right now
because best price is just one factor
then we have to make sure that you know
it's a deep liquidity pool that's one
factor need to make sure that you know
SE page is not being set cool high
obviously you can set like 20% SE page
but you might get sandwich by the the
nvv right so we have to optimize the s p
as well then at the same time we have to
optimize priority fees because you know
like if the chain is not like hot right
now why would you pay like you know high
priority fees
so that's I now it's I would say that's
why I I wouldn't say we are offering the
best price because now the problem can
be more complicated than what it is
right now I would just say that we offer
the
best possible executing price out there
yeah which means uh not just the best
like sometime can be the best price
sometime you know it will be it might
not be the best at the current moment
but we make sure that you know you can
let you can a stock and you don't have
to worry about saage you don't have to
worry about
too higher fees you don't have to worry
about M yeah got it this is super
interesting um so to summarize the
journey uh you started off with a
completely client side implementation
hitting a lot of rpcs run into a bunch
of problems so you move to a JavaScript
pend where all these things moved to a
back end you would do that and then
JavaScript became a bottleneck so you
moved to rust um once you did that you
were on fly IO and you of course ran out
of compute so you moved to AWS where the
bills were really high and eventually
someone came optimized it and now you're
running you know at 100K a month bill
that's all that you're burning on
compute for the execution layer yeah I
mean and if you think about this 100K a
month we are serving almost 20,000
requests per second 20 to 30,000
requests per second yeah that's very
cool and so if I understand this
correctly you're saying the core system
of Jupiter that's aggregating the swaps
is a web to system deployed on ews yeah
oh very interesting I don't know why I
assumed that you know you're doing onsan
like you have an onsean contract that's
figing out no no so every so to find the
route is all of chain but to executing
the route is on chain yeah got it of
course that makes sense um very cool and
is this engine open source uh no the Ed
is not open source yeah even the
contract is not open
source got
it so if someone wants to you know get
involved in J as Shake mentioned like uh
what is the problem that you're you're
currently facing the motivation behind
that was is can someone from the
community come and you know solve
something for you that could be you know
some extra function that you need in the
salana v three.js or some the rust TDK U
any any problem that you know someone
comes for example 500k to 100K bill is a
great problem that someone came and solv
yeah is there something similar that's
open source that people you know from
the community can work on I I don't know
so far um I mean I feel like the
documentation alone is like you know
it's uh is is something that a lot of
people can
yeah uh you know it really help to
improve like how we can do the stuff you
know obviously a lot of people say that
like oh I think your thing is not OP
Source you know like how can like we
have all the finding code like the the
client code is all open source that you
know people can come in contribute but
at the same time it's like you know like
engineer these days are very interesting
as well like you know I'm not even sure
that engineer say Okay um I check gbt
but it doesn't really tell me how to do
it like how can I do it but that's like
okay um like how can one to help you if
if you don't even know like you know the
basic stuff right like I think I mean to
be honest I think CH is helpful but for
sure it make you more productive but the
same time if you just real on me it's
like like like they don't documentation
anymore they just like okay like I try
to continue it doesn't tell me this so I
guess like but I be here asking you the
question right now I say okay
fine that's bad uh and I feel like a lot
of times uh you know uh performance one
thing right obviously like I I feel like
um you know if you put it out someone
might contribute to it but in the end of
the day it's like I'm not sure how many
people W because I do believe that
unless there's certain incentive it's
very hard for people to do it unless you
know like people used to show off or you
know like I will contribute to my SQ to
make my SQ fast right but at the same
time it's like I feel like routing
engine and crypto is very different
because the the incentive is not about
bragging right anymore the incentive is
all about how you can make money if I if
you open source the engine right then
they will probably optimize it and just
for them to use like they don't want to
give the alpha to any people because
it's so fast that you can immedately get
profit from it like why should I share
the the work with other people but last
time on like last time on my SQ you know
like postgress or anything like there's
no obvious way to to make money from it
the only way you can make money from it
is like you contribute to it then you
get a job offer from like some big
company you ask you keep booking on it
right and they were they're willing to
pay you like you know couple hundred, a
month because you're so good at the the
the one librarian they they they depend
on right like now just like okay like I
have a routing engine right now I build
it up I open source it they can come in
like you know optimize it and uh you
know get a lot of gain from it without
even sharing
it that
love so one thing on on the topic right
one thing that I'm curious on is that
that is
chup Dow right so that is a token that's
like it's working towards decentralizing
Jupiter it's a f a protocol so now with
how is that how does that work in in the
sense that for example the the code is
CL the code is not open source like
there's one specific team that has like
right access to the these Vos and then
there is like to that is you know about
decentralizing the protocol right so H
how do
you how do you think about this or how
do you uh
approach I was say I say I say is very
different right you know like like you
know like there's no like there's no
word that like you know we can just call
it a doubt then we all just leave the
job and not care about it like just say
that everything's open source and like
we don't run the AWS we don't run
everything right like I would think
about it as like you know we are we are
the you know we SC the engine we still
you know manage the whole thing um the
Dow B he own the tokens they can do
whatever with the token obviously
everything incentive is being driven by
you know like or everything they be do
on the activities are you know they
drive to the the token
yeah
awesome so slightly going back to the
previous integration but but to answer
your questions like uh we we want to
open source up
some of the stuff as like for example
our ifq contracts open source oh it just
that certain things that we don't think
that we should open source and you know
if the doubt decided to like okay let's
open source this we don't mind open
source it but I pretty sure people
understand like these are the things
that if you open source like you know it
will actually drive the the economical
value down more than what it is today
yeah yeah it's fair I also follow the
argument so one one thing that curious
curious about is like uh when moving for
example you mentioned there were only a
finite number of liquidity pools to deal
with and then from there it went there
were many more there were many point
right and also there are newer and newer
protocols that keep getting launched
every day so how do you make sure that
they
also you know integrated into your
system because when you execute this
cont there is for example especially
when there is no ideal that is no type
by Cod or whatever so we do we do share
some like uh idea of like how they can
integrate like we have like a sample
code out that you know like we do it we
opens up the radio integration we open
source out the um you know like Oka V
pool Integrations there are a lot of
different example you can look at and we
would also wrote like a simple example
for people to take a look at as well um
but most of the time right it's just
uh like we are very behind like to be
honest even even we open source listing
up right we still very behind on
implementations but some sometimes you
look at it right the problem is not just
us because we look at the code right
like this new protocol like you know
they are writing contract they don't
really use check like you know it's like
okay obvious overflow problem is right
there in the contracts is like okay like
you know like like do you really not
care about this thing and you want us to
put this code into our library so that
like this whole thing would just crash
like you know we have to sometime we
just have to like but obviously we can
just say like okay this this part of the
code one overflow is fine but like it's
very hard for us to tell them then they
they have like then we have to give like
black statements like yo like just you
check math everywhere right you know I
think it's unfair but at the same time
it's like you know it's like I feel like
it's a way to just save everyone time
instead of you like arguing me okay this
this part won't overlow then then I I
find one part that's overflow that's oh
s like you know like like I will fix
this part then I was like am I going to
be the guy who just Ral every part of
your code and like you know like tell
you like what is happening what is like
the problem and like every single thing
right then and also the user probably
doesn't know where it came from right
they're just going to blame you or
something yeah exactly exactly we are we
are the one who to all the reputation
race like you know they still care like
what this new whatever X amm like you
know like is routing my too right and we
have to make sure that like and we also
have to make sure that like whatever
code they say is quoting the number is
actually matching the exact number that
we can thr on right if I if I start
integrating amm say Okay always tell me
a better code but when the price execute
it's always a worst code then it's like
okay something is wrong here right so is
it like because the code that you Cote
me like give me is wrong or like you
modify contract like you know
differently yeah like a lot of people
blame us like yo like you guys are very
St and the great thing but like they
don't really understand like what is the
problem what is the you know like thing
as well then uh we also have people come
to us is like yo like you know if you
don't integrate us we would doubt it was
like like do you see the problem there
like you know like like what is like
like like should I even integrate a Alm
that would die soon or like then
basically like us putting this in the
thing then you might rock as well you
know all these different problems right
then it's like you just become a very
problem then they start beding and like
yo like but if you don't integr we will
die you know we are like whatever like
we just two Engineers like you know like
living on Ramen whatever like if you
don't do this like you know we will like
we won't be getting any tractions like
we won't be like making any money I was
like I'm pretty sure you don't know like
how swap B you need to get a lot more
volume to actually make money and stuff
like that at the same time like it's not
very convincing to tell me that like you
know you might just shut it down next
month like you know because you don't
get more want is
right like like how can we even help at
this point right
yeah how how was like I curious to hear
about pump's impact on the scale that
jup sees like PRP to pump you probably
had like very very fewer number of
tokens launching per de along you know
Along Comes pump that just send it
vertically every USD is like you know
probably 10 thousands of tokens that are
getting launched right so there are also
means that like New Pools New token pass
to for you to
track so um I mean yeah we we we have
real time tractor on all the pumps U but
before that we we would just before that
we have an engine that just make sure
that the pool hit certainity then we
only this it but before this like you
know pan came along like the alpha is
very different people want to trade the
put right at the can't launch so we have
to modify the engine to make sure that
you know okay uh we have to monitor
whatever contract is on pump fund if
there's a new pool we immediately L it
yeah even listing it right we have to
but before that we treat every single
amm as like every single pool as like a
One requirement whether you get listed
or you don't get listed now we have
multiple requirement you know if you P
fund token like is it's being listed but
we don't do a lot optimization on it
when I say that it means uh you know you
can only do but and let's say you can do
simple you know pump fund to like some
high liquidity so USBC route so that you
can buy pump fund with f but we don't do
like you know it's because it's the new
pan pan to we put it to all the routing
well it doesn't really make sense right
even
though like it will just slow the
routing engine now because it's
basically a single pool on P fun maybe
with the pool bet and all this thing
right like but is like two pools that
doesn't really make sense to even route
through or like being aggregated as part
of the as part of the routing entry but
it makes sense for you to buy P fund
with usdc because you know any P fund
token usdc because you know like it's
support so only like but I do want to
use usdc to buy any token that's on P
fun right now so we do aggregation like
that but we don't put it into the C
aggregation of everything yeah so now we
have like different like we call
different group type based on what kind
of tokens they are or what kind of pool
they have yeah awesome at what point was
but this also go back to the same
problem that we talk about right this
has everything to do with like sorry I
cut you off a little bit but like let me
continue on the part yeah yeah yeah
absolutely so this also go back to the
thing where like we can always find you
the best price but can you can this best
price being executed on train or not is
a problem right um yeah so these are the
things that we have to do with because
you know High liquidity pull OB
obviously a lot safer to trade like like
you know even normal like let's say lstd
right you like jup so to zto so but some
you rout through you can you can rout
through like a a real random pool that's
like you know low liquidity and you know
if I do LSD LSD I I I will be h i I'll
be hoping that like execution rate is
high like you know the FI rate is almost
close to zero like it's not like some
crazy like tokens that will swing out of
R even know it's like just so to so like
how how crazy the price can be but based
on our experience if we just throw any
post into the routing it will just R
through like crazy routing to find you
the best price they sometime might be
10% better but we know like you know if
you're not like running like a high
frequency like I be charging bought on
salana there's no way you can get this
price even though at one particular time
stamp at once a particular snapshot we
do see the best price that's 10% better
yeah so I think what I'm saying is like
uh yeah now it's multiac problems like
more than just PR
right in a way this is almost like for
example when you know in the initial
days of Google you as long as you're
showing something that is that has a
good amount you know that's
minimally relevant to whatever keyword
that you're searches for but then people
start to be you know doing this all this
SEO optimization and canalizing other
keyword so that theirs appear higher but
still for as far as the user is
concerned for in order for them to have
a good user experience the relevance has
to be very very high right and also
naturally the user Behavior how they
what they expect out of the product
keeps going up as you have more users so
it's kind of in very very interesting to
see the all the breadth of the things
that you need to worry about in a
product that you know when you are like
at you know when you at the vertical
scale yeah exactly
yeah so you mentioned like the pump
thought the how pump you know was like
uh it was like a lot of tokens very
different scale to what you had to do
right I'm curious to also you guys
recently launched ap. Pro so I'm curious
to hear more about you know the
transition like what was the how do you
guys start about a. Pro what was the
product decision behind it yeah so so
it's actually very simple uh you know
people come to Jupiter with their own
custody War right it's very common
common thing right it's like okay your
Phantom wall you have you know s flare
wallet now you have the Jupiter wallet
as well like the mobile apps you come to
it your custody is on your own then you
just do the swap right it's very easy um
sometime you will come and buy like some
you know um you know like some Min
tokens that mostly
graduating but then P fun came along
right the the the game changed a little
bit like people don't mind paying like
Bots like 1% fees as long they
guaranteed the executing price that they
want and they don't mind coming in and
out to fast right these are the thing we
can find the pool for you but at the
same time it's tough for us to to Really
uh to really put 20% slip on our UI you
know what I mean like we we we need to
protect the user by not setting 20% and
uh we cannot say that okay everything
will be trans transmitting on zto and
like everything is just like you know we
have your wallet we can just you know
sign the transaction for you for for
this kind of trading experience right
you know you seriously just want it to
be fast like really fast and you don't
mind paying 1% fees you don't mind doing
20% SI page all right so then we realize
that like this big Market that like you
know people are doing that we are not
very good at um I think it's also good
that like we we like we went into it
March April I think the data that we
collect always
been I think it's very helpful for us to
optimize the routing engine as well to
do what I call the best attributing
price not just the bad not not not just
the best price but the best way to land
your transaction the best priority fee
the best way to protect you from maybe
the best way to yeah to do the cage for
you yes
very cool so what you're saying is a.
proo uh lets you you guys are doing
custody and uh people don't have their
own private keys or what yeah would love
to know how do you build this you know
private Key Management uh yeah yeah like
we know we are not the expert to it like
you know we actually pay some mon like
you know we use weet tree off to do like
to do it but you know like like like if
you look into it right A lot of these
people just like you know like they
don't tell you what how they do it it's
kind of scary um yeah that's one thing
that we make sure that from day one okay
we are not the expert on it like we are
not doing the claim that like we can
help you to secure the ballet key very
securely that's why we reach out to a
provider I say okay these are the things
that we need can you can help us with it
then yes yeah
all very cool aome Shake mentioned
initially you were in the initial YC bch
with Skype is that true yeah yes yes
that was uh a long time ago my my yeah
my my backround uh I was in byc 2009
um when you know PG everyone was still
there um yeah um and uh yeah strike the
co-founder was you know strip was in my
bch summer 2009 um M Panner as well so
here miss Panner uh um I think who else
back in the batch that people were still
remember I would say like big span is
still around and I also St is still
around um the people remember
um yeah then I yeah then the company I
work at UH eventually get bought out by
uh Sam the current CEO open AI so Sam
was my boss for a little bit uh yeah for
like a year then I couldn't get my Visa
but I was international student in us
then I have to like go back to college I
went back to college uh finish on my
college then came back out to the m area
started another company yeah um yeah the
company the company is still running
right now my room technically my
roommate started it I was just helping
him out then uh you know um like two of
us the company grew to like uh like now
I think like 100 something people uh
he's still running it uh I left right
around the Sera um I was there for the
SE round then Ser say the last round
valuations was like 1.5 billion uh they
raised 150 million for it yeah that's
very good you think there's some Network
effects that come from you know being in
yc9 is it motivation people you know uh
that you know lead to such heavy
outcomes over like a span of a decade I
don't know I don't know it's more than a
decade right now it's like 22 I think I
started wife 153 yeah 15 years 23 now
I'm like
27 28 yeah 15 years yeah and uh I would
say like uh um back then is very
difficult because you know internet yeah
that's internet but there's no much
content as what it is today right you
know even I mean now even crazier you
have GPT you have like you know cloud
like you know who can just do everything
us tell you everything like the chance
of using Google is even harder like you
basically like this you basically have
PG next to you telling you like you know
you can just ask any question that you
want you know like right you can even
like tell Che activities like yo can you
re all the PG
essay like like do this personality and
tell me like like how advise me on
problems right you know like you can do
things like that back then it's like
startup is a very opaque world right you
know okay what does it even mean to
start the tech company other than like
you hear bog you hear all this thing
like everything's happening in Silicon
value you just have no idea so YC
definitely helps open the door like or
to realize that okay all these thing are
just people solving problem you know
with technology engineering like stuff
like that
yeah very cool what will you into crypto
like from you know being WIS no9 to
crypto with like I think 202k or 20s on1
like what P you into crypto I mean proba
I'm just guessing I mean a lot of things
that funny right you know back then you
know uh we were in YC we will get like a
bunch of like s credits for free from
the company so it's like you know like
Ona is when the Bitcoin white paper came
out so a lot of people just like okay
[__] it just like you know we free
credits might as well to run minor on
the server stuff like that yeah so
that's like you know we I mean like
lucky at the at the time right you know
9 my YC B is exactly when the Bitcoin
paper came out especially you're in you
know ccom Valley you're like in computer
science you are in like you know
engineering it's like that's what I was
talking about like if you're in a
computer science school like you walk
around so yo like have you seen this
Bitcoin paper it's talking about money
that like you know using all this like
decentralized way of like doing stuff
like you know making sure that no one
can own but you have to like pay to like
you know you have to do use CPU to Mone
the token like
most of the people I know running them
the minor program on the on the on their
CPU like you know on the laptops I see
where know you could still get Bitcoin
like just even running on your on your
laptop back then so it's like it was
like a thing for for me that's how I got
to it like was say like like first of
all I just lucky because I was in
college I was in the Bay Area when the
Bitcoin white Pap came out so I want was
talking about it um then after that
obviously it's like when you really get
into it right you like everyone oh like
this is very cool you can build stuff on
it like you know internet money and a
programmable money then you look at it
it's like [__] it's like nothing you
could build on bitcoin it's like it's a
very cool idea like you know you you it
wasn't like a simple thing you want to
build have to go through like all this
complex uh uh you know like things right
then after that we were like okay [__]
it uh like there's nothing I could do
then obviously eal came Longs like for
305 or something like that there
everyone like [__] like it's actually a
final like finally a program a money
that you canri on then I started playing
with you know um um ethereum but
obviously same thing as well like you
know like I was just have you know just
happened to be in in San Francisco like
you know coinbase was there everyone was
there um and like I I I used do Ruby
areas which is basically the same
language that coinbase was built on so
like I get a lot that CH pop a lot of
people there because of the Ruby stuff
oh but like a lot of cross fan used to
work there like I remember like ethereum
was like doing a weekend class like
coinbase to teach people how to do
ethereum you know programming but I sign
up for it was a temp class you know like
I like but the thing is I was like okay
like I think this like you know like
this guy probably not like like don't
know what the [__] he's talking about
anyway so I I decided not to go go go
for the weekend but I remember there
opportunity like this all over the Bara
like you will go into a random meet up
to like people talk about like crypto
stuff so it's very easy to get used to
right um that was like 2015 2016 2017
2018 and I came back to Malaysia trying
to like after I left the Bay Area came
back to Malaysia trying to like figure
out
okay like what can I actually do with
crypto it took me two years finally
stumble upon um I was like okay I want
to Lear like you know Ruby is kind of
boring to me you know evm is like fun
but it's a solty it's like you know it's
like solity so you know just JavaScript
like oh this things using BR I be like
I've been telling me myself that I want
to learn brush for the longest time but
like I was like okay now now is the fine
like you know like a really good
opportunity for me to do BR on salana
that's how yeah that me I mean me and I
know each other since the Bay Area times
like the things like 2010 until now it's
like 15 years then he just asked me y
like you want the view of I was like
yeah let's let's do something together
you know this program langage sounds
cool I really want to learn it as well
yeah awesome
yeah I think it's it's always
interesting to see how you know rust is
kind of the Gateway Dr salana yeah for
me also it was a very simpler story I
was programming in tore and then I saw
oh you know there's actually something
that I know that I could use here let's
get into
all yeah
exactly very cool uh see if you have
more questions Shake do you have more
questions no I think we we are good and
we also cutting close to time thank you
so much for joining s right
we on the podcast so it's been an
absolute pressure and I I I think this
is going this will turn out to be very
well I yeah thank you thank you yeah I
think I think yeah I mean I'm looking
for I mean last you know like if you
give you like a 10 second to to to share
it like you know I'm looking basically
I'm looking at uh you know like we are
trying to P like a you know we different
work group right we Al group to handle
our content we have the co-working group
to hander all the community stuff um I'm
I'm looking at to start the developer
relationship of group so basically like
you know like a call group of maybe two
three Engineers or like you know outage
people who can really like you know
educate more Engineers it doesn't have
to be like pure Jupiter stuff it can be
S stuff as well but basically just to
activate more people start trading on
Jupiter and also start using Solana as
well yeah absolutely I think we'll
yeah I we definitely get a lot of good
inbounds from the podcast and also I I
think as the podcast goes out right we
will make sure to add like a JD or some
kind of a written description of the
work group so that people have like a
strong CDA to click on yeah and also
like you know when but it's ready let me
know so that I can share with the work
group as well so that they can push it
all as well awesome that' be good cool
thank you thanks so nice to meet meet
you have a good day so nice to meet you
have a good day bye have a good day bye